DOCSP-43077: Specify Documents to Return (#29)
mongodb/docs-c: source/read/specify-documents-to-return.txt

.. _c-specify-documents-to-return:

===========================
Specify Documents to Return
===========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: read, paginate, pagination, order, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to specify which documents to return from a read
operation by using the following operations:

- ``limit``: Specifies the maximum number of documents to return from a query
- ``sort``: Specifies the sort order for the returned documents
- ``skip``: Specifies the number of documents to skip before returning query results

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``restaurants`` collection in the ``sample_restaurants``
database from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To learn how to create a
free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

.. _c-limit:

Limit
-----

To specify the maximum number of documents returned from a read operation,

> specify the ``limit`` option to your ``mongoc_collection_find_with_opts()``

Reviewer: I think "pass" works better here. It also gets rid of the repeated "specify"
```suggestion
pass the ``limit`` option to your ``mongoc_collection_find_with_opts()``
```

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/read/specify-documents-to-return.c
      :start-after: start-limit
      :end-before: end-limit
      :language: c
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :visible: false

      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "V & T Restaurant", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "Mimis Restaurant & Bar", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "Venice Restaurant", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "Areo Restaurant", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "Tre Giovani Pizza & Pasta", ... }

.. tip::

   The preceding example returns the first five documents returned by the query in
   :manual:`natural order </reference/glossary/#std-term-natural-order>`. The following
   section describes how to return the documents in a specified sort order.

.. _c-sort:

Sort
----

To return documents in a specified order, use the ``sort`` option. The ``sort``
option takes a sort direction as a parameter. To specify the sort direction,

> pass a ``1`` to specify an ascending sort or a ``-1`` to specify a descending sort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pass a ``1`` for an ascending sort or a ``-1`` for a descending sort.
```

highest to lowest.

The following example returns all documents with a ``cuisine`` field value of
``"Italian"``, sorted by the value of the ``name`` field in ascending order:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/read/specify-documents-to-return.c
      :start-after: start-sort
      :end-before: end-sort
      :language: c
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :visible: false

      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "(Lewis Drug Store) Locanda Vini E Olii", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "101 Restaurant And Bar", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "44 Sw Ristorante & Bar", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "900 Park", ... }
      { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "cuisine" : "Italian", "name" : "A Voce", ... }
      ...

.. _c-skip:

Skip
----

To skip a specified number of documents before returning your query results,
use the ``skip`` option and pass in the number of documents to skip. The
``skip`` option ignores the specified number of documents in your query

> results and returns the rest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
results, then returns the rest.
```
